(interprete_models)
# ML Interpreter (MLI) results
See {numref}`fig:NM_MLI_viewer_matrix` and {numref}`fig:NM_MLI_viewer_imaging`: If the interpretation of predictions was run, the results can be viewed either by selecting ML Interpreter results from the plot drop down menu in the Results Viewer or by clicking on the blue button labeled **I** next to the classification plot (see {numref}`fig:Display_ClassPlot`). Both of these options will open the MLI Viewer.

:::{tip}
You can also select a specific subject by clicking on its point in the classification plot before clicking the blue **I** button.‚
:::

```{figure} Images/NM_MLI_viewer_matrix.png
---
alt: Neurominer result viewer, visualization results
name: fig:NM_MLI_viewer_matrix
---
ML Interpreter result viewer for matrix data
```

```{figure} Images/NM_MLI_viewer_imaging.png
---
alt: Neurominer result viewer, visualization results mli
name: fig:NM_MLI_viewer_imaging
---
ML Interpreter result viewer for neuroimaging data
```

The figure above shows the output of the occlusion-based interpretability for a predictive model, where the contribution of the different features to a subjec'ts prediciotn is assessed by systematically occluding each feature and observing the change in prediction.

## Top plot: Percentile rank of features
- The bars represent the percentile ranks of the features for the selected subject. Each bar corresponds to a specific feature, indicating how that feature's value compares to the distribution of values across the dataset. 
- The coloured lines show the mean percentile rank of each group (classificaiton, in the case of patients and controls), providing a reference for comparison 

### Interpretation
The subject's feature values are compared to both the patient and control groups. Features where the subject's percentile is much higher or lower than the group means may be particularly important in differentiating the subject from the average predictions in either group. 

## Bottom plot: Percentile change in prediction 
- This plot shows the change in prediction when each feature is occluded, with error bars representing the 95% confidence interval (CI) of the change
Significant prediciton changes are indicated by blue bars, while non-significant changes are shown in gray. 

### Interpretation
- Features with a significant prediciton change when occluded are more influential for this subject's prediciton. For example, if occluding a feature to a large drop in the prediciton score (represented by a significant change below the zero line), this feature is positively contributing to the prediciton
- If occlusion leads to an increase in the prediciton score, it suggests that the feature has a negative contribution. 


